docs/using_unidist/unidist_on_mpi.rst, before:

..
      Copyright (C) 2021-2023 Modin authors

      SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0

:orphan:

Unidist on MPI
''''''''''''''

This section describes the use of unidist with the MPI execution backend.

There are two ways to choose the execution backend to run on.
First, by setting the ``UNIDIST_BACKEND`` environment variable:

.. code-block:: bash

    # unidist will use MPI
    $ export UNIDIST_BACKEND=mpi

.. code-block:: python

    import os

    # unidist will use MPI
    os.environ["UNIDIST_BACKEND"] = "mpi"

Second, by setting the configuration value associated with the environment variable:

.. code-block:: python

    from unidist.config import Backend

    Backend.put("mpi")  # unidist will use MPI

For more information on the environment variables and associated configs specific to the MPI backend
see :doc:`config API </flow/unidist/config>` section.

Run unidist on MPI
''''''''''''''''''

Unidist on MPI in a single node
"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

In order to run unidist on MPI in a single node, there are two options.

Controller/Worker model
-----------------------

This execution model is similar to ones other execution backends use.
To run unidist on MPI in a single node using Controller/Worker model you should use ``mpiexec -n 1 python <script.py>`` command.

.. code-block:: bash

    $ mpiexec -n 1 python script.py

MPI worker processes will be spawned dynamically by unidist.

It is worth noting that `Intel MPI implementation <https://anaconda.org/intel/mpi4py>`_ supports the ability of spawning MPI processes
without using ``mpiexec`` command so you can run unidist on Intel MPI just with:

.. code-block:: bash

    $ python script.py

Refer to ``Using intel channel`` section of :doc:`Installation </installation>` page on how to install Intel MPI implementation to use it with unidist.

SMPD model
----------

First of all, to run unidist on MPI in a single node using `SPMD model <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Single_program,_multiple_data>`_,
you should set the ``UNIDIST_IS_MPI_SPAWN_WORKERS`` environment variable to ``False``:

.. code-block:: bash

    $ export UNIDIST_IS_MPI_SPAWN_WORKERS=False

.. code-block:: python

    import os

    os.environ["UNIDIST_IS_MPI_SPAWN_WORKERS"] = False

or set the associated configuration value:

.. code-block:: python

    from unidist.config import IsMpiSpawnWorkers

    IsMpiSpawnWorkers.put(False)

This will enable unidist not to spawn MPI processes dynamically because the user himself spawns the processes.

Then, you should also use ``mpiexec`` command and specify a number of workers to spawn.

.. code-block:: bash

    $ mpiexec -n N python script.py

When initializing unidist this execution model gets transformed to Controller/Worker model.

.. note:: 
    Note that the process with rank 0 devotes for the controller (master) process you interact with,
    the process with rank 1 devotes for the monitor process unidist on MPI uses for tracking executed tasks.
    So the processes with ranks 2 to N devote for worker processes where computation will be executed.
    If you right away use Controller/Worker model to run unidist on MPI, this happens transparently.

Unidist on MPI cluster
""""""""""""""""""""""

In order to run unidist on MPI in a cluster, there are two options.

Controller/Worker model
-----------------------

This execution model is similar to ones other execution backends use.
In order to run unidist on MPI in a cluster you should specify hosts to run on.
There are two ways to specify MPI hosts to run on.
First, by setting the ``UNIDIST_MPI_HOSTS`` environment variable:

.. code-block:: bash

    # unidist will use the hosts to run on
    $ export UNIDIST_MPI_HOSTS=<host1>,...,<hostN>

.. code-block:: python

    import os

    # unidist will use the hosts to run on
    os.environ["UNIDIST_MPI_HOSTS"] = "<host1>,...,<hostN>"

Second, by setting the configuration value associated with the environment variable:

.. code-block:: python

    from unidist.config import MpiHosts

    MpiHosts.put("host1,...,hostN")  # unidist will use the hosts to run on

Running is the same as in a single node.

SPMD model
""""""""""

First of all, to run unidist on MPI in a cluster using `SPMD model <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Single_program,_multiple_data>`_,
you should set the ``UNIDIST_IS_MPI_SPAWN_WORKERS`` environment variable to ``False``:

.. code-block:: bash

    $ export UNIDIST_IS_MPI_SPAWN_WORKERS=False

.. code-block:: python

    import os

    os.environ["UNIDIST_IS_MPI_SPAWN_WORKERS"] = False

or set the associated configuration value:

.. code-block:: python

    from unidist.config import IsMpiSpawnWorkers

    IsMpiSpawnWorkers.put(False)

This will enable unidist not to spawn MPI processes dynamically because the user himself spawns the processes.

Then, you should also use ``mpiexec`` command and specify both hosts and a number of workers to spawn on each node.

.. code-block:: bash

    $ mpiexec -host host1:n1,...,hostM:nM python script.py

When initializing unidist this execution model gets transformed to Controller/Worker model.

.. note:: 
    Note that the process with rank 0 devotes for the controller (master) process you interact with,
    the process with rank 1 devotes for the monitor process unidist on MPI uses for tracking executed tasks.
    So the processes with ranks 2 to N devote for worker processes where computation will be executed.
    If you right away use Controller/Worker model to run unidist on MPI, this happens transparently.

Commit message:

DOCS-#277: Add notes regarding installation of MPI implementations (#278)
Signed-off-by: Igoshev, Iaroslav <iaroslav.igoshev@intel.com>

docs/using_unidist/unidist_on_mpi.rst, after:

..
      Copyright (C) 2021-2023 Modin authors

      SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0

:orphan:

Unidist on MPI
''''''''''''''

This section describes the use of unidist with the MPI execution backend.
Since there are different MPI implementations, each of which can be used as a backend in unidist,
refer to :doc:`Installation </installation>` page on how to install a specific MPI implementation.

There are two ways to choose the execution backend to run on.
First, by setting the ``UNIDIST_BACKEND`` environment variable:

.. code-block:: bash

    # unidist will use MPI
    $ export UNIDIST_BACKEND=mpi

.. code-block:: python

    import os

    # unidist will use MPI
    os.environ["UNIDIST_BACKEND"] = "mpi"

Second, by setting the configuration value associated with the environment variable:

.. code-block:: python

    from unidist.config import Backend

    Backend.put("mpi")  # unidist will use MPI

For more information on the environment variables and associated configs specific to the MPI backend
see :doc:`config API </flow/unidist/config>` section.

Run unidist on MPI
''''''''''''''''''

Unidist on MPI in a single node
"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

In order to run unidist on MPI in a single node, there are two options.

Controller/Worker model
-----------------------

This execution model is similar to ones other execution backends use.
To run unidist on MPI in a single node using Controller/Worker model you should use ``mpiexec -n 1 python <script.py>`` command.

.. code-block:: bash

    $ mpiexec -n 1 python script.py

MPI worker processes will be spawned dynamically by unidist.

It is worth noting that `Intel MPI implementation <https://anaconda.org/intel/mpi4py>`_ supports the ability of spawning MPI processes
without using ``mpiexec`` command so you can run unidist on Intel MPI just with:

.. code-block:: bash

    $ python script.py

Refer to ``Using intel channel`` section of :doc:`Installation </installation>` page on how to install Intel MPI implementation to use it with unidist.

SMPD model
----------

First of all, to run unidist on MPI in a single node using `SPMD model <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Single_program,_multiple_data>`_,
you should set the ``UNIDIST_IS_MPI_SPAWN_WORKERS`` environment variable to ``False``:

.. code-block:: bash

    $ export UNIDIST_IS_MPI_SPAWN_WORKERS=False

.. code-block:: python

    import os

    os.environ["UNIDIST_IS_MPI_SPAWN_WORKERS"] = False

or set the associated configuration value:

.. code-block:: python

    from unidist.config import IsMpiSpawnWorkers

    IsMpiSpawnWorkers.put(False)

This will enable unidist not to spawn MPI processes dynamically because the user himself spawns the processes.

Then, you should also use ``mpiexec`` command and specify a number of workers to spawn.

.. code-block:: bash

    $ mpiexec -n N python script.py

When initializing unidist this execution model gets transformed to Controller/Worker model.

.. note:: 
    Note that the process with rank 0 devotes for the controller (master) process you interact with,
    the process with rank 1 devotes for the monitor process unidist on MPI uses for tracking executed tasks.
    So the processes with ranks 2 to N devote for worker processes where computation will be executed.
    If you right away use Controller/Worker model to run unidist on MPI, this happens transparently.

Unidist on MPI cluster
""""""""""""""""""""""

In order to run unidist on MPI in a cluster, there are two options.

Controller/Worker model
-----------------------

This execution model is similar to ones other execution backends use.
In order to run unidist on MPI in a cluster you should specify hosts to run on.
There are two ways to specify MPI hosts to run on.
First, by setting the ``UNIDIST_MPI_HOSTS`` environment variable:

.. code-block:: bash

    # unidist will use the hosts to run on
    $ export UNIDIST_MPI_HOSTS=<host1>,...,<hostN>

.. code-block:: python

    import os

    # unidist will use the hosts to run on
    os.environ["UNIDIST_MPI_HOSTS"] = "<host1>,...,<hostN>"

Second, by setting the configuration value associated with the environment variable:

.. code-block:: python

    from unidist.config import MpiHosts

    MpiHosts.put("host1,...,hostN")  # unidist will use the hosts to run on

Running is the same as in a single node.

SPMD model
""""""""""

First of all, to run unidist on MPI in a cluster using `SPMD model <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Single_program,_multiple_data>`_,
you should set the ``UNIDIST_IS_MPI_SPAWN_WORKERS`` environment variable to ``False``:

.. code-block:: bash

    $ export UNIDIST_IS_MPI_SPAWN_WORKERS=False

.. code-block:: python

    import os

    os.environ["UNIDIST_IS_MPI_SPAWN_WORKERS"] = False

or set the associated configuration value:

.. code-block:: python

    from unidist.config import IsMpiSpawnWorkers

    IsMpiSpawnWorkers.put(False)

This will enable unidist not to spawn MPI processes dynamically because the user himself spawns the processes.

Then, you should also use ``mpiexec`` command and specify both hosts and a number of workers to spawn on each node.

.. code-block:: bash

    $ mpiexec -host host1:n1,...,hostM:nM python script.py

When initializing unidist this execution model gets transformed to Controller/Worker model.

.. note:: 
    Note that the process with rank 0 devotes for the controller (master) process you interact with,
    the process with rank 1 devotes for the monitor process unidist on MPI uses for tracking executed tasks.
    So the processes with ranks 2 to N devote for worker processes where computation will be executed.
    If you right away use Controller/Worker model to run unidist on MPI, this happens transparently.
